# Javascript (DOM Manipulation) Intro

## FAQ's

## The 3 step program

Whenever we want to do DOM Manipulation with Javascript, we can - 99% of the time -, follow this 3 step program.

1. Select the element we want to watch 
2. Select what event we want to watch on that element
3. Write the code that needs to run when this event has happened


### 1. Select the element we want to watch

Okay so any event in Javascript has a target. When you click a button, that is the button; when you hover over
a div that is the div; when you scroll down the document, that is the document,...

This is a big part of DOM Manipulation, because in step one and often in step three as well, we need to be able to select elements.
This is more than just understanding `document.getElementById("myId");` because sometimes you will need to select multiple elements, or the element you need does not have an ID, ...

There are many different selectors that you can use:

- getElementById()
- getElementsByTagName()
- querySelector()
- querySelectorAll()
- ....

But the point here is not to learn all of these by heart (and many more btw), but to understand them so that there is a logic behind them.
Learn the result they (can) give you!

> Tip: console.log() / console.dir() function responses to understand them, when you know the difference between a javascript object and a HTML object, then you've already come a long way


### 2. Select the event we want to watch this element for

Basically, we need to define what event we wanna look out for: a click, a hover, a drag, ....
For those of you who have trouble finding a list, [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events) it is.

We then add this event with:
 ~~~~
document.getElementById("myId").addEventListener("event", function() {
    // code here
});
~~~~

Think about the code you write. For example this uses an anonymous function. Could you use a named function? How would that look?

Don't know what these things are? Look them up!


### 3. Execute the code required

This is the final step, this is where you write the consequence to an event (e.g. button clicked, open popup, hover over element, make it disappear)
There isn't really an explanation here since this is just whatever actions you want to undertake.


### Final tips

- The event listener, when triggered will pass the [event](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/EventTarget/addEventListener#The_event_listener_callback) that happened to the function, this variable you can use to get some properties of the event.
- use variables for any value you want to re-use several times (element selectors, strings, ...)
- try to use OOP (Object Oriented Programming) as much as you can (e.g. make an element instead of just using a string of html code)
- when you add something to the DOM (picture, div, ...) it's called a dynamic element! (this affects what you can do with it)
- find out what the difference is between a javascript object and an html object
- read through the properties of a javascript object in the console
- ...

> If you have tips, you feel should be added here, then make a pull request!






